MEN-5890: CI/CD templates and examples for Azure DevOps (#7)
mendersoftware/mender-ci-workflows: templates/azure/README.md

# Azure DevOps Templates for Mender

> `mendersoftware/mender-ci-tools` container image with pre-installed `mender-cli` and `mender-artifact` tools is available and is used to build Mender Artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the `mendersoftware/mender-ci-tools` container image with pre-installed `mender-cli` and `mender-artifact` tools to build the Mender Artifacts.
```

> Pipelines examples can be found in the related [folder](../../examples/azure/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the pipeline examples in the related [folder](../../examples/azure/).
```

## Templates

> The templates are [Azure DevOps step templates with parameters](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/templates?view=azure-devops). The step templates give flexibility to use them in a custom stages and jobs, and allow to build pipelines to work across different environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The templates are [Azure DevOps step templates with parameters](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/templates?view=azure-devops). The step templates give the flexibility to use them in custom stages and jobs, and allow to build pipelines to work across different environments.
```

### Upload Artifact

> [Upload Mender Artifact](./mender-artifact-upload.yml) template uploads a Mender artifacts to a Mender server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Upload Mender Artifact](./mender-artifact-upload.yml) template uploads a Mender Artifact to a Mender server.
```

> The template's parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template accepts the following parameters:
```

- `mender_uri`: Mender server URL (default: https://hosted.mender.io).
- `mender_pat`: Mender Personal Access Token (read the [documentation](https://docs.mender.io/server-integration/using-the-apis#personal-access-tokens) for more information)
- `mender_artifact`: Path of Mender Artifact file, relative to `$(System.DefaultWorkingDirectory)`.

### Create Deployment

> [Create deployment on Mender server](./mender-deployment-create.yml) template creates a deployment on a Mender server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Create deployment on Mender server](./mender-deployment-create.yml) template creates a deployment on a Mender server.
```

> The template's parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template accepts the following parameters:
```

- `mender_uri`: Mender server URL.
- `mender_pat`: Mender Personal Access Token (read the [documentation](https://docs.mender.io/server-integration/using-the-apis#personal-access-tokens) for more information)
- `mender_deployment_name`: The name of Mender deployment.
- `mender_release_name`: The name of Mender release.

> - `mender_deployment_group`: The name of Mender devices group a deployment will be triggered to. One of `mender_deployment_group` or `mender_devices_list` is required. `mender_devices_list` takes the priority if both are set.
> - `mender_devices_list`: The list of Mender devices a deployment will be triggered to.

Reviewer 2: As `mender_deployment_group` is referencing `mender_devices_list`, I suggest se swap their positions:
```suggestion
- `mender_devices_list`: The list of Mender devices a deployment will be triggered to.
- `mender_deployment_group`: The name of Mender devices group a deployment will be triggered to. One of `mender_deployment_group` or `mender_devices_list` is required. `mender_devices_list` takes the priority if both are set.
```

Alternatively, leave them in the correct order but move the "One of `mender_deployment_group` or `mender_devices_list` is required. `mender_devices_list` takes the priority if both are set." to the second item.

> - `mender_deployment_group`: The name of Mender devices group a deployment will be triggered to. One of `mender_deployment_group` or `mender_devices_list` is required. `mender_devices_list` takes the priority if both are set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mender_deployment_group`: The name of the Mender devices group your deployment will target. One of `mender_deployment_group` or `mender_devices_list` is required. `mender_devices_list` takes the priority if both are set.
```
